Update email_servers.rst (#1449)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/discuss/advanced/email_servers.rst

.. _Office 365 documentation:
    https://support.office.com/en-us/article/how-to-set-up-a-multifunction-device-or-application-to-send-email-using-office-365-69f58e99-c550-4274-ad18-c805d654b4c4
    

> Set up different outgoing servers in a multi-company environment

Author: Hello @tiku-odoo Thanks for the review, looks fine !

> Set up different outgoing servers in a multi-company environment

Reviewer: Thanks-

Can you explain what happens if no servers are returned after the query? For example, two servers are set with from filter email address, how will the transactional email be sent out? 

Our current documentation states that Odoo will use two system parameters to set the "from" address of this email.

- mail.default.from: local part of default outgoing email address.
- mail.catchall.domain: domain part of default outgoing email address. 
`
With this configuration in place, if Odoo sends an email that doesn’t match any of the from filters, it will alter the email’s “From” before sending it to the MTA.

It will use the default outgoing email address, composed like this: {mail.default.from}@{mail.catchall.domain}.
`
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/saas-15.1/applications/general/email_communication/email_servers.html#use-a-default-from-email-address

Thanks for clarifying. 

Tim

> Set up different outgoing servers in a multi-company environment

Author: Hello @tiku-odoo 

Here is what is done in the code : https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1b9dd118cb0f305ed38b6326fa814336cbf16252/odoo/addons/base/models/ir_mail_server.py#L598

Basically, if there are no email server corresponding to the "From filter", the first email server found is used even if it was configured for another domain.

If there is no email server, the email will never be sent, just like in SaaS when you duplicate a database : the standard email server from Odoo is archived with the aim to avoid sending fake invoices to real customers during the testing process.

Hope this helps.

================================================================

The "From Filter" allows to use a specific outgoing depending of the "From". If an email is sent from Odoo, the email server will be chosen as follows:

> #.  Odoo searches for an email server having the same "From Filter" as the "From" defined in the outgoing email. For example, if the "From" is foo@bar.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equals to foo@bar.com will be returned.

Reviewer: `Odoo searches for an email server having the same "From Filter" as the "From" email address defined in the outgoing email. For example, if the "From" email address is test@example.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equal to test@example.com will be returned. `

> #. If not found, Odoo searches for an email server having the same domain in the "From Filter" as in the "From". For example, if the "From" is foo@bar.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equals to bar.com will be returned.

Reviewer: `If no email servers are found, then Odoo searches for an email server having the same domain in the "From Filter" as in the "From" email address of the outgoing email. For example, if the "From" email address is test@example.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equal to example.com will be returned. `

> #. If not found, Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter".

Reviewer: `If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter" set. `

> #. If not found, Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter".

Reviewer 2: There's 2 step after this

If no mail server are found for the email address, we search for a mail server for the "mail.default.from" (with the same priority "full match" > "domain match")

> #. If not found, Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter".

Reviewer: @std-odoo  Can you review the following edit, did I understand it correctly? The attached edit replaces this sentence: 
``If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter" set.`` Can you clarify?

What happens if there aren't any results from this query? Does anything need to be added about the notification encapsulation? Should we add this as a note to the other two pull requests on the from filter? Thanks :)

``Should this previous query return no results, then Odoo performs a search for an email server using the system parameter: 'mail.default.from'. First, the email address listed will attempt to match an email server and then the domain will attempt a match.``

Reviewer 2: You have some steps missing I think, to resume the entire flow
1. Find a mail server whose from_filter match the entire sender email address
2. If not found, find a mail server whose from_filter match the sender email domain name
3. If not found, find a mail server with `from_filter=False` (match everything)
4. If not found find a mail server whose from_filter match notifications@odoo.com
5. If not found, find a mail server whose from_filter match the domain name of the "notifications email"
6. If not found return the first outgoing mail server (sorted by priority), in that case the mail configuration is bad and the email might me marked as spam

> If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter" set. 

So this is correct for step 3

> Should this previous query return no results, then Odoo performs a search for an email server using the system parameter: 'mail.default.from'. First, the email address listed will attempt to match an email server and then the domain will attempt a match

This is correct for step 4 and 5

Hope it clarify

Reviewer 2: you can check in the server log to be sure the email was sent, but if you have at least one server and if it didn't match the email / notification email, yes it might be marked as spam.

> #. If not found, Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter".

Reviewer: @cth-odoo Can we add this to line 237?

```suggestion
If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter" set.

Should this previous query return no results, then Odoo performs a search for an email server using the system parameter: 'mail.default.from'. First, the email address listed will attempt to match an email server and then the domain will attempt a match.

If no email server is found then Odoo will return the first outgoing email server (sorted by priority). In this case, it is likely the email configuration will be spoofing the email and it will be flagged as Spam. 
```

> .. note:: If several email servers are found, Odoo will use the first one per priority.

Reviewer: `Note: If several email servers are found, then Odoo will use the first one according to its priority. For example, if there are two email servers, one with a priority of 10 and the other with a priority of 20, then the email server with a priority of 10 will be used.`

.. _Office 365 documentation:
    https://support.office.com/en-us/article/how-to-set-up-a-multifunction-device-or-application-to-send-email-using-office-365-69f58e99-c550-4274-ad18-c805d654b4c4
    
Set up different outgoing servers in a multi-company environment
================================================================

The "From Filter" allows to use a specific outgoing depending of the "From". If an email is sent from Odoo, the email server will be chosen as follows:

> #.  Odoo searches for an email server having the same "From Filter" as the "From" defined in the outgoing email. For example, if the "From" is foo@bar.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equals to foo@bar.com will be returned.

Reviewer 3: Please [wrap the lines before the 100th character](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#start-a-new-line-before-the-100th-character). It makes the RST easier to work with and especially to review ;)

> #. If not found, Odoo searches for an email server having the same domain in the "From Filter" as in the "From". For example, if the "From" is foo@bar.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equals to bar.com will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.  If no email servers are found, then Odoo searches for an email server having the same domain in
the "From Filter" as in the "From" email address of the outgoing email. For example, if the "From"
email address is test@example.com, only the email servers having the "From Filter" equal to
example.com will be returned.
```

> If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email servers without any "From Filter" set.
> 
> Should this previous query return no results, then Odoo performs a search for an email server using the system parameter: 'mail.default.from'. First, the email address listed will attempt to match an email server and then the domain will attempt a match.
> 
> If no email server is found then Odoo will return the first outgoing email server (sorted by priority). In this case, it is likely the email configuration will be spoofing the email and it will be flagged as Spam. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no email servers are found after checking for the domain, then Odoo will return all email
servers without any "From Filter" set.

Should this previous query return no results, then Odoo performs a search for an email server
using the system parameter: 'mail.default.from'. First, the email address listed will attempt
to match an email server and then the domain will attempt a match.

If no email server is found then Odoo will return the first outgoing email server (sorted by
priority). In this case, it is likely the email configuration will be spoofing the email and it
will be flagged as Spam. 

```

> .. note:: If several email servers are found, Odoo will use the first one per priority.

Reviewer 3: Please put the content of note/warning/etc. directives below the directive:
```rst
.. note::
   If several email servers...
```
Otherwise it is interpreted as the title of the directive and is harder to maintain.

> .. note:: If several email servers are found, Odoo will use the first one per priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   If several email servers are found, then Odoo will use the first one according to its priority.
   For example, if there are two email servers, one with a priority of 10 and the other with a
   priority of 20, then the email server with a priority of 10 will be used.
```

Note that in this case, you have to set your domain's Sender Policy Framework (SPF) records to
include both transactional and mass mail servers. If your server resides with xxxx.odoo.com, the
available options are Sendinblue and Mailchimp, as your e-mails would be originated from the

> xxxx.odoo.com domain.

Reviewer: In this paragraph can you change xxxx.odoo.com domain to: 

`mycompany.odoo.com domain`

We made this change so that the "xxxx" not be taken out of context.

Note that in this case, you have to set your domain's Sender Policy Framework (SPF) records to
include both transactional and mass mail servers. If your server resides with xxxx.odoo.com, the
available options are Sendinblue and Mailchimp, as your e-mails would be originated from the

> xxxx.odoo.com domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mycompany.odoo.com domain
```
